README.md, before:

# rpscrape

Horse racing data has been hoarded by a few companies, enabling them to effectively extort the public for access to any worthwhile historical amount. Compared to other sports where historical data is easily and freely available to use and query as you please, racing data in most countries is far harder to come by and is often only available with subscriptions to expensive software.

The aim of this tool is to provide a way of gathering large amounts of historical data at no cost.

#### Example data (Ascot 2018)

![data](https://i.postimg.cc/7LncCDMG/data1.png)

#### Table of Contents

- [Requirements](#requirements)
- [Install](#install)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Scrape by date](#scrape-by-date)
- [Command Line Arguments](#command-line-arguments)
- [Scrape Racecards](#scrape-racecards)
- [Settings](#settings)
- [Options](#options)

## Requirements

You must have Python 3.13 or greater, and GIT installed. You can download the latest Python release [here](https://www.python.org/downloads/). You can download GIT [here](https://git-scm.com/downloads).

In addition, the [Requests](http://docs.python-requests.org/en/master/), [tomli](https://pypi.org/project/tomli/), [orjson](https://pypi.org/project/orjson/1.3.0/), [jarowinkler](https://pypi.org/project/jarowinkler/), [AIOHTTP](https://docs.aiohttp.org/en/stable/), [curl_cffi](https://pypi.org/project/curl-cffi/), [TQDM](https://pypi.org/project/tqdm/) and [LXML](https://lxml.de/) python modules are needed, they can be installed using PIP(_included with Python_) with the following command.

```
pip3 install requests tomli orjson jarowinkler aiohttp lxml curl_cffi
```

## Install

```
git clone https://github.com/joenano/rpscrape.git
```

## Usage

Run the program from the scripts folder:

```
cd rpscrape/scripts
python3 rpscrape.py
```

To scrape you must provide 3 options in the following format:

```
[rpscrape]> [region|course] [year|range] [code]
```

The first option can be either a region or a specific course.

Each region has a 2 or 3 letter code like "ire" for Ireland or "gb" for Great Britain. You can list region codes with the regions command:

```
[rpscrape]> regions
     CODE: mal | Malaysia
     CODE: mac | Macau
     CODE: gue | Guernsey
     CODE: ity | Italy
     CODE: swi | Switzerland
     CODE: tur | Turkey
```

The other possibility for the first option is that of a specific course. Course codes are numeric and up to 4 digits long. You can list course codes with the courses command:

```
[rpscrape]> courses
     CODE: 32   | Aintree
     CODE: 2    | Ascot
     CODE: 3    | Ayr
     CODE: 4    | Bangor
     CODE: 5    | Bath
     CODE: 6    | Beverley
```

Add a search term to search for a specific region or course:

```
[rpscrape]> regions france
    CODE: fr  | France
```

```
[rpscrape]> courses york
    CODE: 107  | York
    CODE: 1347 | York Aus
```

Add a region code to list the courses from that region:

```
[rpscrape]> courses ire
    CODE: 175  | Ballinrobe
    CODE: 176  | Bellewstown
    CODE: 177  | Clonmel
    CODE: 596  | Cork
    CODE: 178  | Curragh
    CODE: 180  | Down Royal
```

The second option can be a year e.g "1999", or a range of years e.g "2005-2015".

The final option is the racing code and can either be "flat" or "jumps".

### Examples

The following example shows a request for flat races from Ireland in 2017.

```
[rpscrape]> ire 2017 flat
```

The next example shows a request for the last 2 years flat form in Great Britain.

```
[rpscrape]> gb 2017-2018 flat
```

The next example shows a request for the last 20 years jump form at Ascot(code: 2).

```
[rpscrape]> 2 1999-2018 jumps
```

Note: When scraping jumps data the year you enter is when the season started, i.e to get 2019 Cheltenham Festival data, you would use the year 2018.

```
[rpscrape]> 11 2018 jumps
```

In the above example, Cheltenham races from the season 2018-2019 are scraped, the 2018 Greatwood and the 2019 festival will be included but not the 2018 festival.

## Scrape by date

To scrape by date or date range, use the -d flag followed by the date/date range and the region. Scraping individual courses in this manner is not included:

```
[rpscrape]> -d [date|range] [region]
```

The date format is YYYY/MM/DD, to specify a range of dates, separate them with a dash '-', start date followed by end date.

### Examples

```
[rpscrape]> -d 2019/12/18 gb
```

```
[rpscrape]> -d 2019/12/15-2019/12/18 ire
```

## Command Line Arguments

Its now possible to run from the command line with a few flags.

### Examples

To scrape by date, use the -d flag for dates and -r flag for optional region, if no region code is provided, all races from the given dates will be scraped by default.

All races will be scraped on date.

```
./rpscrape.py -d 2020/10/01
```

Only races from GB will be scraped.

```
./rpscrape.py -d 2020/10/01 -r gb
```

To scrape a particular course or region, use the -c or -r flags with the course or region code. Use the -y flag for the year and -t flag for the type of racing, flat or jumps.

```
./rpscrape.py -c 2 -y 2015-2020 -t jumps
```

```
./rpscrape.py -r ire -y 2019 -t flat
```

## Scrape Racecards

You can scrape racecards using racecards.py which saves a file containing a json object of racecard information.

There are only two parameter options, --day N and --days N where N is a number 1-2.

### Examples

Scrape todays racecards.

```
./racecards.py --day 1
```

Scrape tomorrows racecards.

```
./racecards.py --day 2
```

Scrape todays and tomorrows racecards.

```
./racecards.py --days 2
```

You can see the structure of the json and some of the race information below.

![json1](https://i.postimg.cc/Y2ZNmLh5/json.png)

![json2](https://i.postimg.cc/c1thTGtt/json.png)

### Settings

The [user_settings.toml](https://github.com/joenano/rpscrape/blob/master/user_settings.toml) file contains the data fields that can be scraped. You can turn fields on and off by setting them true or false. The order of fields in that file will be maintained in the output csv. The [default_settings.toml](https://github.com/joenano/rpscrape/blob/master/default_settings.toml) file should not be edited, its there as a backup and to introduce any new fields without changing user settings.

![settings](https://i.postimg.cc/sDhG3SQT/settings.png)

### Options

```
regions             List all available region codes
regions [search]    Search for specific region code

courses             List all courses
courses [search]    Search for specific course
courses [region]    List courses in region - e.g courses ire

-d, date            Scrape race by date - e.g -d 2019/12/17 gb

help                Show help
options             Show options
cls, clear          Clear screen
q, quit, exit       Quit
```

Tab complete for option keywords is available on Linux.

Commit message:

Add region filter to racecards
- Add --region command-line argument to filter racecards by region
- Extract course_id directly from href to avoid extra API calls
- Update get_race_urls to accept optional region parameter
- Add region validation using valid_region function
- Update README with --region usage examples

README.md, after:

# rpscrape

Horse racing data has been hoarded by a few companies, enabling them to effectively extort the public for access to any worthwhile historical amount. Compared to other sports where historical data is easily and freely available to use and query as you please, racing data in most countries is far harder to come by and is often only available with subscriptions to expensive software.

The aim of this tool is to provide a way of gathering large amounts of historical data at no cost.

#### Example data (Ascot 2018)

![data](https://i.postimg.cc/7LncCDMG/data1.png)

#### Table of Contents

- [Requirements](#requirements)
- [Install](#install)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Scrape by date](#scrape-by-date)
- [Command Line Arguments](#command-line-arguments)
- [Scrape Racecards](#scrape-racecards)
- [Settings](#settings)
- [Options](#options)

## Requirements

You must have Python 3.13 or greater, and GIT installed. You can download the latest Python release [here](https://www.python.org/downloads/). You can download GIT [here](https://git-scm.com/downloads).

In addition, the [Requests](http://docs.python-requests.org/en/master/), [tomli](https://pypi.org/project/tomli/), [orjson](https://pypi.org/project/orjson/1.3.0/), [jarowinkler](https://pypi.org/project/jarowinkler/), [AIOHTTP](https://docs.aiohttp.org/en/stable/), [curl_cffi](https://pypi.org/project/curl-cffi/), [TQDM](https://pypi.org/project/tqdm/) and [LXML](https://lxml.de/) python modules are needed, they can be installed using PIP(_included with Python_) with the following command.

```
pip3 install requests tomli orjson jarowinkler aiohttp lxml curl_cffi
```

## Install

```
git clone https://github.com/joenano/rpscrape.git
```

## Usage

Run the program from the scripts folder:

```
cd rpscrape/scripts
python3 rpscrape.py
```

To scrape you must provide 3 options in the following format:

```
[rpscrape]> [region|course] [year|range] [code]
```

The first option can be either a region or a specific course.

Each region has a 2 or 3 letter code like "ire" for Ireland or "gb" for Great Britain. You can list region codes with the regions command:

```
[rpscrape]> regions
     CODE: mal | Malaysia
     CODE: mac | Macau
     CODE: gue | Guernsey
     CODE: ity | Italy
     CODE: swi | Switzerland
     CODE: tur | Turkey
```

The other possibility for the first option is that of a specific course. Course codes are numeric and up to 4 digits long. You can list course codes with the courses command:

```
[rpscrape]> courses
     CODE: 32   | Aintree
     CODE: 2    | Ascot
     CODE: 3    | Ayr
     CODE: 4    | Bangor
     CODE: 5    | Bath
     CODE: 6    | Beverley
```

Add a search term to search for a specific region or course:

```
[rpscrape]> regions france
    CODE: fr  | France
```

```
[rpscrape]> courses york
    CODE: 107  | York
    CODE: 1347 | York Aus
```

Add a region code to list the courses from that region:

```
[rpscrape]> courses ire
    CODE: 175  | Ballinrobe
    CODE: 176  | Bellewstown
    CODE: 177  | Clonmel
    CODE: 596  | Cork
    CODE: 178  | Curragh
    CODE: 180  | Down Royal
```

The second option can be a year e.g "1999", or a range of years e.g "2005-2015".

The final option is the racing code and can either be "flat" or "jumps".

### Examples

The following example shows a request for flat races from Ireland in 2017.

```
[rpscrape]> ire 2017 flat
```

The next example shows a request for the last 2 years flat form in Great Britain.

```
[rpscrape]> gb 2017-2018 flat
```

The next example shows a request for the last 20 years jump form at Ascot(code: 2).

```
[rpscrape]> 2 1999-2018 jumps
```

Note: When scraping jumps data the year you enter is when the season started, i.e to get 2019 Cheltenham Festival data, you would use the year 2018.

```
[rpscrape]> 11 2018 jumps
```

In the above example, Cheltenham races from the season 2018-2019 are scraped, the 2018 Greatwood and the 2019 festival will be included but not the 2018 festival.

## Scrape by date

To scrape by date or date range, use the -d flag followed by the date/date range and the region. Scraping individual courses in this manner is not included:

```
[rpscrape]> -d [date|range] [region]
```

The date format is YYYY/MM/DD, to specify a range of dates, separate them with a dash '-', start date followed by end date.

### Examples

```
[rpscrape]> -d 2019/12/18 gb
```

```
[rpscrape]> -d 2019/12/15-2019/12/18 ire
```

## Command Line Arguments

Its now possible to run from the command line with a few flags.

### Examples

To scrape by date, use the -d flag for dates and -r flag for optional region, if no region code is provided, all races from the given dates will be scraped by default.

All races will be scraped on date.

```
./rpscrape.py -d 2020/10/01
```

Only races from GB will be scraped.

```
./rpscrape.py -d 2020/10/01 -r gb
```

To scrape a particular course or region, use the -c or -r flags with the course or region code. Use the -y flag for the year and -t flag for the type of racing, flat or jumps.

```
./rpscrape.py -c 2 -y 2015-2020 -t jumps
```

```
./rpscrape.py -r ire -y 2019 -t flat
```

## Scrape Racecards

You can scrape racecards using racecards.py which saves a file containing a json object of racecard information.

There are only three parameter options, --day N, --days N where N is a number 1-2, and --region N where N is a region (gb, ire, etc).

### Examples

Scrape today's racecards.

```
./racecards.py --day 1
```

Scrape tomorrow's racecards.

```
./racecards.py --day 2
```

Scrape today's and tomorrow's racecards.

```
./racecards.py --days 2
```

Scrape today's and tomorrow's racecards by region.

```
./racecards.py --days 2 --region gb
```

You can see the structure of the json and some of the race information below.

![json1](https://i.postimg.cc/Y2ZNmLh5/json.png)

![json2](https://i.postimg.cc/c1thTGtt/json.png)

### Settings

The [user_settings.toml](https://github.com/joenano/rpscrape/blob/master/user_settings.toml) file contains the data fields that can be scraped. You can turn fields on and off by setting them true or false. The order of fields in that file will be maintained in the output csv. The [default_settings.toml](https://github.com/joenano/rpscrape/blob/master/default_settings.toml) file should not be edited, its there as a backup and to introduce any new fields without changing user settings.

![settings](https://i.postimg.cc/sDhG3SQT/settings.png)

### Options

```
regions             List all available region codes
regions [search]    Search for specific region code

courses             List all courses
courses [search]    Search for specific course
courses [region]    List courses in region - e.g courses ire

-d, date            Scrape race by date - e.g -d 2019/12/17 gb

help                Show help
options             Show options
cls, clear          Clear screen
q, quit, exit       Quit
```

Tab complete for option keywords is available on Linux.
